This room serves as an introductory warm-up for beginners and new users. Many of the challenges, while basic, give new users a sense of understanding. Solutions are not allowed to be shared, so I will instead document my methodology over the actual answers. Let's dive in.

# Challenge 1 - Password Pandemonium

The beginning challenge asks us to create a password with the following criteria:
1. At least 12 characters
2. Includes upper, lower, number, and symbol
3. Not found in a leaked password list

This is simple, as many combinations work. A strong password today, though, would omit the requirements for numbers and symbols, and would instead prompt for a longer password.

# Challenge 2 - The Suspicious Chocolate.exe

This challenge gives us a static site mimicking VirusTotal, where we will scan an executable for potential malware. After opening the site and clicking `scan`, we see that the executable is returned as a `MalhareTrojan`. A malicious file indeed!

# Challenge 3 - Welcome to the AttackBox!

Again, with a static site. We are given a very limited Linux terminal, one that is similar to what is used in the THM AttackBox. We use a combination of commands (ls, cd, cat) to navigate inside a directory and output the contents of a text file.

# Challenge 4 - The CMD Conundrum

This challenge is similar to challenge 3, but is instead a Windows cmd prompt. We use similar commands (dir, cd, dir /a, type)  to navigate into a directory, find the hidden file, and output its contents.

# Challenge 5 - Linux Lore

Given a simulated Linux terminal, we change directories to the home directory of user `mcskidy` with `cd /home/mcskidy` and look for hidden files. This can be achieved with `ls -la`. We see a hidden file, output its contents, and are given the flag.

# Challenge 6 - The Leak in the List

We are given a static site that resembles HaveIBeenPwned?. We are checking a specific email address to see if it has been compromised. Of course, the given email has been compromised, and this discovery gives us the flag.

# Challenge 7 - WiFi Woes in Wareville

In this static site, we are given a simple router interface and must change the default credentials. After logging in with the default creds `admin/admin`, we must simply create a "strong" password, one that resembles the requirements in challenge 1.

# Challenge 8 - The App Trap

This challenge gives us a mobile interface in which we are checking apps with different permissions. In this case, we see that an application, `Eastmas Scheduler` has access to the password vault. Interesting! After revoking, we are given the flag.

# Challenge 9 - The Chatbot Confession

In this challenge, we are given a very small log of chats from an AI assistant and must mark which ones leak sensitive data. These are pretty obvious. Submitting the correct three (usually containing credentials in the chat itself), rewards the flag.

# Challenge 10 - The Bunny's Browser Trail

In the final challenge for the AoC 2025 warmup, we have a small list of HTTP logs. We are asked to go through the `User Agent` fields to determine which one is adversarial of the bunch. Compared to the many entries such as Chrome, Firefox, Edge, etc., we see a user agent of `BunnyOS/1.0 (HopSecBot)`. This is most definitely the solution, which rewards us with the final flag.