Today, we are going to be covering a relevant topic in all of computer science: artificial intelligence. Specifically, we are going to cover the applications of AI as an assistant in cyber security, solving tasks with it, and the considerations of using AI in cyber security.

Unfortunately, AI is not just a buzzword anymore. It has greatly expanded. In cyber security, its applications include analyzing various logs together, behavior analysis, and generative AI for providing context for an event.

Blue teams may use AI for speeding up detection, investigation, and response. They constantly analyze information and provide context to alerts in real time.

Red teams may take advantage of agentic AI to handle laborious and time-consuming tasks a pentester may traditionally take. This may include reconnaissance and information gathering, from OSINT to scanner outputs, to mapping an attack surface.

Software also has a large amount of AI being injected. Vibe coding, for example, and the slew of vulnerabilities resulting from it.

Now time for its pitfalls. It is important to note the use of AI in offensive cases. Maybe an AI has caused a race condition or overwhelmed systems, resulting in downed services. The AI can learn from the data we give t. We cannot assume that the AI is 100% correct ever. We must make an effort to verify the information it provides. Securely keeping data for AI is also an issue.

Through the attackbox, we can navigate to the VM's IP, which is an AI chatbot. There are three different stages that we are guided through with an AI in order to collect the flag. These are shown below:

### Red Team
The generative AI creates a very simple SQL injection Python script. I will avoid pasting it here in so that I am not required to add disclaimers.


### Blue Team
Here, the AI is working on log analysis. Here, it generates a log with a clear SQL injection attempt. From this log, the generative AI chatbot was able to analyze the attack and identify the vulnerability that the server is likely vulnerable to SQL injection.

### Software 
The AI does an analysis of the source code for the bot itself. How... funny? Interesting? Self-reflective? Regardless, the AI looks at some PHP script where there is the default value `??` in the server, which implies the SQL injection vulnerability. The tool then provides a series of best practices as well as various tools that can be used for security testing (OWASP ZAP, SQLMap).

The completion of these three sections awards us with a flag. We can derive the next flag by using the exploit we are told about on the vulnerable service. If we copy the script generated by the red team AI and save it into a file (changing the placeholder machine IP at first), we can run the script, which gives us a successful login and the final flag for the day!